Create migration guide - Closes #1025 (#1037)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/management/migration.adoc

// Project URLs
:url_core_install: setup/binary.adoc
:url_core_2_install: master@lisk-core::setup/application.adoc
:url_core_2_update: master@lisk-core::update/application.adoc
:url_sdk_protocol_voteweight: master@lisk-sdk:protocol:consensus-algorithm.adoc#voting_and_weight

This guide describes how to migrate a Lisk Core 2.1.6 node

== Preparation

=== Preparing Lisk Core 2.1.6 for the update

==== Ensure you are running the binary distribution of Lisk Core
If you are using a different distribution of Lisk Core 2.1.6, like Docker, Commander or Source, you need to xref:{url_core_2_install}[install the application/binary distribution].

==== Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core
Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core to be able to seamlessly migrate to Lisk Core 3.0.0.

Open `package.json` to check the `version` of your Lisk Core node.
If your version is lower than 2.1.6 make sure to xref:{url_core_2_update}[update Lisk Core] before you proceed with the migration.

=== Setting up the lisk migrator

==== Download the lisk-migrator
Download the lisk-migrator by running the following command in the terminal:

[source,bash]
----

> curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz <file name>

Reviewer: hope you plan to update `lisk-migrator.tar.gz` with actual url when tar is available?
Also, it's nice to give `file name` by default? 
ex: `curl -o https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/main/lisk-migrator.tar.gz lisk-migrator.tar.gz` like this? then user can just copy past each step.

----
==== Download checksum and verify
Download the checksum and verify the successful download of lisk-migrator.

{counter:seq3:A}) Download the checksum.

[source,bash]
----
curl <file name>.SHA256
----
{counter:seq3}) Run the following command in the terminal and ensure the output is `sha256sum: <file name>: OK` (note: command name and output may vary on macOS).

[source,bash]
----
sha256sum -c <file name>.SHA256
----

=== Setting up Lisk Core 3.0.0

Follow the guide how to xref:{url_core_install}[setup Lisk Core 3.0.0] for the binary distribution.

IMPORTANT: Don't start Lisk Core 3.0.0 yet.

=== Create a custom config with your delegate information

First copy the existing config file for the respective network.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
cp ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/custom-config.json <1>
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----

> cp ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/custom-config.json <1>

Reviewer: hope nobody run both instance on one node, but for safe side we can add network 
`cp ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/testnet/custom-config.json`, because both test and main copy same path and it might get overridden

Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core to be able to seamlessly migrate to Lisk Core 3.0.0.

Open `package.json` to check the `version` of your Lisk Core node.
If your version is lower than 2.1.6 make sure to xref:{url_core_2_update}[update Lisk Core] before you proceed with the migration.

=== Setting up the lisk migrator

==== Download the lisk-migrator
Download the lisk-migrator by running the following command in the terminal:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/main/lisk-migrator.tar.gz
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/test/lisk-migrator.tar.gz
----
--
====

==== Download checksum and verify
Download the checksum and verify the successful download of lisk-migrator.

{counter:seq3:A}) Download the checksum.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o <file name>.SHA256 https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/main/lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o <file name>.SHA256 https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/test/lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
----
--
====

> {counter:seq3}) Run the following command in the terminal and ensure the output is `sha256sum: <file name>: OK` (note: command name and output may vary on macOS).

Author: ```suggestion
{counter:seq3}) Run the following command in the terminal and ensure the output is `sha256sum: <file name>: OK` (Note: The command name and output may vary on macOS).
```

[source,bash]
----

> sha256sum -c <file name>.SHA256

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sha256sum -c lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
```

----

=== Setting up Lisk Core 3.0.0

Follow the guide how to xref:{url_core_install}[setup Lisk Core 3.0.0] for the binary distribution.

IMPORTANT: Don't start Lisk Core 3.0.0 yet.

=== Create a custom config with your delegate information

First copy the existing config file for the respective network.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----

> cp ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json <1>

Reviewer: is the path correct? isn't it start from `~/.lisk/lisk-core` something like this?

Author: Should be correct for binary installation, see: https://lisk.io/documentation/lisk-core/v3/setup/binary.html#download-and-execute-the-installation-script

----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----

> cp ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/custom-config.json <1>

Reviewer: same here

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-migrator --snapshot-height ${snapshotHeight} --output ~/.lisk/lisk-core/config/mainnet/genesis_block.json --lisk-core-path path_to_lisk_core_v2
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-migrator --snapshot-height ${snapshotHeight} --output ~/.lisk/lisk-core/config/testnet/genesis_block.json --lisk-core-path path_to_lisk_core_v2
----
--
====

[NOTE]
====
The snapshot height will be announced seperately.
====

Observe if `lisk-migrator` finishes successfully (takes about 30-60 min from the snapshot height).

=== Wait until the network reaches the snapshot height
After the snapshot height is reached, delegates have approximately 2 hours time to start their Lisk Core 3.0.0 and enable forging on them, to ensure they wont miss any blocks after the hardfork.

Is case the node is started at a later point in time, the node will simply sync to the current network height.
For delegates, this might mean they miss a block, for every one else it has no further effect.

=== Stop Lisk Core 2.1.6

> After the lisk-migrator script has finished and the announced snapshot height has passed, there is no reason annymore to run Lisk Core 2.1.6 and it is recommended to stop it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the lisk-migrator script has finished and the announced snapshot height has passed, there is no reason to continue running Lisk Core 2.1.6 and therefore it is recommended to stop it.
```

Navigate into the root folder of your Lisk Core 2.1.6 installation and run the following command to stop the old Lisk Core version:

[source,bash]
----
bash lisk.sh stop
----

=== Start Lisk Core 3.0.0
Use the Lisk Core CLI to start Lisk Core 3.0.0.

Run the following command in the terminal and check the logs in the console to verify Lisk Core starts successfully:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network mainnet --config=custom-config.json
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network testnet --config=custom-config.json
----
--
====

Press kbd:[CTRL] + kbd:[C] to stop the process again.

Install PM2 to run Lisk Core in the background:

[source,bash]
----
npm i -g pm2
----

> Create a pm2 config as below for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a pm2 config as shown below for example:
```

.~/lisk-core/pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "lisk-core",
  "script": "lisk-core start",
  "env": {
    "LISK_NETWORK": "betanet",
    "LISK_CONFIG_FILE": "custom-config.json"
  }
}
----

TIP: All available options for `scripts` and `env` can be found in `lisk-core start --help`.

> After creating the config, start it with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating the config, to start it execute the following command:
```

.~/lisk-core/
[source,bash]
----
pm2 start pm2.conf.json
----

This will start Lisk Core in the background.

> You can verify that the node is running correctly by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can verify that the node is running correctly by executing the following command:
```

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core node:info
----

> This will return some general node information like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will return some general node information, for example as shown below:
```

----

TIP: Use the `--pretty` flag to return the response in formatted JSON: `lisk-core node:info --pretty`.

=== Check new account address

It is necessary to know your new address to enable forging for your delegate in the new network.

Use the following command to see your new account address.
You will be prompted for your passphrase from which the other account details will be generated.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core account:show
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter passphrase:  [hidden]
----

This will return an object including `privateKey`, `publicKey`, `address` and `binaryAddress`.

The value under `binaryAddress` is used to self-vote for the delegate account and to enable forging in the next steps.

=== Self-voting

In the new DPoS rules, delegates need to self-vote with a significant amount of tokens to be able to reach forging positions.

> For more information, how self-voting affects the vote weight, see xref:{url_sdk_protocol_voteweight}[Delegates, voting and delegate weight (Lisk Protocol)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, how self-voting affects the vote weight, see xref:{url_sdk_protocol_voteweight}[Delegates, voting and delegate weight (Lisk Protocol)].
```

Author: ```suggestion
For more information how self-voting affects the vote weight, see xref:{url_sdk_protocol_voteweight}[Delegates, voting and delegate weight (Lisk Protocol)].
```

Use the Lisk Core CLI to cast the self-vote with the desired amount of tokens.

[source,bash]
----
$ lisk-core transaction:create 5 1 100000000
? Please enter: votes(delegateAddress, amount):  89aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d28, 148000000000
? Want to enter another votes(delegateAddress, amount) No
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter passphrase:  [hidden]
{"transaction":"0805100118012080c2d72f2a2024350a05e078b181fa8f3c273ca9882a8f5ed6efbaf3d1537665f9480635273f321f0a1d0a1489aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d281080a0e6d7ce083a403aef0012b05f3d962e3bc4b1ba70d6cc4fea783e24c02c36bc644e283ef2dd7618ec072594505c7ab8ce2a1e22dda5e90c51be79d06ac4871daf8430ff6a330b"}
$ lisk-core transaction:send 0805100118012080c2d72f2a2024350a05e078b181fa8f3c273ca9882a8f5ed6efbaf3d1537665f9480635273f321f0a1d0a1489aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d281080a0e6d7ce083a403aef0012b05f3d962e3bc4b1ba70d6cc4fea783e24c02c36bc644e283ef2dd7618ec072594505c7ab8ce2a1e22dda5e90c51be79d06ac4871daf8430ff6a330b
Transaction with id: '6a6121adf6a73a857bef92eaec9c29545f53c9196a16faa1eafdf58012f5a2e5' received by node.
----

=== Enable forging

> As last step, enable forging on the node for your delegate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the last step, enable forging on the node for your delegate.
```

Again, this can be done by using the Lisk Core CLI.
Just use it with your own delegate address.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core forging:enable 89aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d28 0 0 0 <1>
----

<1> Replace the address with your delegate address in hexadecimal representation.

> The `0 0 0` stand for the three variables `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `0 0 0` stands for the three variables `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.
```

> These three variables need to be set to `0` for every delegate who starts forging for the first time in the network, which is true for every delegate participating in the migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These three variables need to be set to `0` for every delegate who starts forging for the first time in the network, which is required for every delegate participating in the migration.
```

Author: ```suggestion
These three variables need to be set to `0` for every delegate who starts forging for the first time in the network, which is the case for every delegate participating in the migration.
```

[TIP]

====

> When a delegate has already forged in the network, they need to check which values to use for `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a delegate has already forged in the network, it is necessary to check which values to use for `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.
```

Follow the guide how to xref:{url_core_install}[setup Lisk Core 3.0.0] for the binary distribution.

IMPORTANT: Don't start Lisk Core 3.0.0 yet.

=== Create a custom config with your delegate information

First copy the existing config file for the respective network.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
cp ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json <1>
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
cp ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/custom-config.json <1>
----
--
====

Next, use the CLI of Lisk Core 3.0.0 to generate the delegate configuration data.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core forging:config --pretty
----

After running the command, you will be prompted for your delegate passphrase and for the password that will be used to encrypt the passphrase, so it can be stored securely in the delegate configuration data.

----
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please enter password:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter password:  [hidden]
----

After providing the required inputs, the delegate configuration data will be returned in the terminal.

> Copy the generated delegate data object and add it to your custom configuration under the `forging.delegates` key:

Reviewer: now that the `lisk-core forging:config` generates the forging config which is mergeable format, should we use option `--output custom-forging.json` and then add the merge step
`jq --slurp '.[0] * .[1]' path/to/custom-config.json custom-forging.json > /path/to/merged.json`.

====

:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 5
== Preparation

[NOTE]

====
The following hardware setup is recommended for running the migration script:

* Machines with a minimum of 4 GB RAM for the Mainnet
* Machines with a minimum of 2 GB RAM for the Testnet
====

=== Preparing Lisk Core 2.1.6

==== Ensure you are running the binary distribution of Lisk Core
If you are using a different distribution of Lisk Core 2.1.6, such as Docker, Commander or Source, it will be necessary to xref:{url_core_2_install}[install the application/binary distribution].

==== Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core
Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core to be able to seamlessly migrate to Lisk Core 3.0.0.

Open `package.json` to check the `version` of your Lisk Core node.
If your version is lower than 2.1.6, make sure to xref:{url_core_2_update}[update Lisk Core] before you proceed with the migration.

=== Setting up the Lisk migrator

==== Download the migration script
Download the migration script by running the following command in the terminal:

[subs=attributes+]
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz {url_lisk_migrator}
----

> NOTE: If you are on macOS, dowload the file `lisk-migrator-v1.0.0-rc.0-darwin-x64.tar.gz` instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you are on macOS, download the file `lisk-migrator-v1.0.0-rc.0-darwin-x64.tar.gz` instead.
```

Reviewer 3: That's all I noticed on the proofreading side, otherwise it's looking good :+1:

Author: thanks, but we just discussed to remove this note again ^^ we only document linux now 👍

= Testnet and Mainnet v3 migration guide
:toc:
:experimental:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

// External URLs
:url_wallet: https://lisk.io/wallet
// Project URLs
:url_core_install: setup/binary.adoc
:url_core_2_install: master@lisk-core::setup/application.adoc
:url_core_2_update: master@lisk-core::update/application.adoc
:url_sdk_protocol_voteweight: master@lisk-sdk:protocol:consensus-algorithm.adoc#voting_and_weight

How to migrate a Lisk Core 2.1.6 node to Lisk Core 3.0.0.

[IMPORTANT]

====

> All actively forging delegates on the Lisk Mainnet and the Lisk Testnet need to follow this guide to correctly migrate their nodes to the new network, in order to don't miss any blocks after the network hard fork.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All actively forging delegates on the Lisk Mainnet and the Lisk Testnet need to follow this guide to correctly migrate their nodes to the new network, in order to not miss any blocks after the network hard fork.
```

> Optionally, every one else having running a Lisk Core 2.1.6 who is not an actively forging delegate can participate in the migration process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Optionally, anyone running a Lisk Core 2.1.6 who is not an actively forging delegate can participate in the migration process.
```

In this case you can skip the steps 1.4, 2.7, 2.8 and 2.9 in the guide, as they are only relevant for delegates.
====

:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 5
== Preparation

[NOTE]

====
The following hardware setup is recommended for running the migration script:

* Machines with minimum 4 GB RAM for Mainnet
* Machines with minimum 2 GB RAM for Testnet
====

=== Preparing Lisk Core 2.1.6

==== Ensure you are running the binary distribution of Lisk Core
If you are using a different distribution of Lisk Core 2.1.6, such as Docker, Commander or Source, it will be necessary to xref:{url_core_2_install}[install the application/binary distribution].

==== Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core
Ensure you are running version 2.1.6 of Lisk Core to be able to seamlessly migrate to Lisk Core 3.0.0.

Open `package.json` to check the `version` of your Lisk Core node.

> If your version is lower than 2.1.6 make sure to xref:{url_core_2_update}[update Lisk Core] before you proceed with the migration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your version is lower than 2.1.6, make sure to xref:{url_core_2_update}[update Lisk Core] before you proceed with the migration.
```

----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/test/lisk-migrator.tar.gz
----
--
====

==== Download checksum and verify
Download the checksum and verify the successful download of lisk-migrator.

{counter:seq3:A}) Download the checksum.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256 https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/main/lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl -o lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256 https://downloads.lisk.io/lisk/test/lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
----
--
====

{counter:seq3}) Run the following command in the terminal and ensure the output is `sha256sum: <file name>: OK` (Note: The command name and output may vary on macOS).

[source,bash]
----
sha256sum -c lisk-migrator.tar.gz.SHA256
----

==== Extract and add to PATH

Unpack it, and add it to the system path, in order to use it in the terminal:

[source,bash]
----
tar -xf ./lisk-migrator.tar.gz
----

Make the `lisk-migrator` command available in the PATH, e.g. by executing

[source,bash]
----
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/lisk-migrator/bin" <1>
----

> <1> Replace `$HOME` with the absolute path of where the `lisk-migrator` folder is located, in case you extracted it someewhere else than your home directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `$HOME` with the absolute path of where the `lisk-migrator` folder is located, in case you extracted it somewhere other than your home directory.
```

=== Setting up Lisk Core 3.0.0

Follow the guide how to xref:{url_core_install}[setup Lisk Core 3.0.0] for the binary distribution.

IMPORTANT: Don't start Lisk Core 3.0.0 yet.

=== Create a custom config with your delegate information

First copy the existing config file for the respective network.

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
cp ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json <1>
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
cp ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/config.json ~/lisk-core/config/testnet/custom-config.json <1>
----
--
====

> Next, use the CLI of Lisk Core 3.0.0 to generate the delegate configruation data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, use the CLI of Lisk Core 3.0.0 to generate the delegate configuration data.
```

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core forging:config --pretty
----

> After running the command, you will be prompted for your delegates passphrase and for the password that will be used to encrypt the passphrase, so it can be stored securely in the delegate configuration data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After running the command, you will be prompted for your delegate passphrase and for the password that will be used to encrypt the passphrase, so it can be stored securely in the delegate configuration data.
```

            encryptedPassphrase: "iterations=1&salt=476d4299531718af8c88156aab0bb7d6&cipherText=663dde611776d87029ec188dc616d96d813ecabcef62ed0ad05ffe30528f5462c8d499db943ba2ded55c3b7c506815d8db1c2d4c35121e1d27e740dc41f6c405ce8ab8e3120b23f546d8b35823a30639&iv=1a83940b72adc57ec060a648&tag=b5b1e6c6e225c428a4473735bc8f1fc9&version=1",
            hashOnion: {
                "count": 1000000,
                "distance": 1000,
                "hashes": [
                    "ff2156e33c4aefa4a5a790edbe329f4a",
                    "5f86db180d4e63be6412d42d444dfb49",
                    "10fc37bb42d7f77030138e45795fef65",
                    "f04a306a73c5d7d94cc4f262b4d5ebb4",
                    //[...]
                    "ca41d52225f4b76140fc7f277731d326",
                    "fde61109609b74ba16d5ebd72a8b446f",
                    "9752dc2228492466d7c2046354d5fdfd"
                ]
            }
        }
    ],
  },
  //...
}
----

<1>  The list of delegates who are allowed to forge on this node.

== Migration steps

//TODO: Add URL to snapshot height announcement

=== Check the announced snapshot height

Check the announced snapshot height on <WEBSITE>.

> The height is needed as a parameter of the `lisk-migrator` script in the next step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The height is needed by `lisk-migrator` in the next step.
```
This one was technically correct, but a bit wordy, so I slimmed it down here

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-migrator --snapshot-height ${snapshotHeight} --output ~/.lisk/lisk-core/config/mainnet/genesis_block.json --lisk-core-path ~/lisk-main
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-migrator --snapshot-height ${snapshotHeight} --output ~/.lisk/lisk-core/config/testnet/genesis_block.json --lisk-core-path ~/lisk-test
----
--
====

* `--snapshot-height`:
The height on which the blockchain snapshot will be performed.
The snapshot height will be announced separately.
* `--output`:
The absolute path to the directory, where the newly generated genesis block should be saved to.
* `--lisk-core-path`:
The absolute path to the directory, where the Lisk Core 2.1.6 node is located.

=== Wait until the network reaches the snapshot height

Observe if `lisk-migrator` finishes successfully, (this takes about 30-60 minutes from the snapshot height).

After the snapshot height is reached, delegates have approximately 2 hours time to start their Lisk Core 3.0.0 and enable forging, to ensure they won't miss any blocks after the hardfork.

> In case the node is started at a later point in time, then the node will simply sync to the current network height.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the node is started at a later point in time, it will simply sync to the current network height.
```

Run the following command in the terminal and check the logs in the console to verify Lisk Core starts successfully:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network mainnet --config=~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network testnet --config=~/lisk-core/config/testnet/custom-config.json
----
--
====

Press kbd:[CTRL] + kbd:[C] to stop the process again.

Install PM2 to run Lisk Core in the background:

[source,bash]
----
npm i -g pm2
----

Create a pm2 config as shown below for example:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
.~/lisk-core/pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "lisk-core",
  "script": "lisk-core start",
  "env": {
    "LISK_NETWORK": "mainnet",
    "LISK_CONFIG_FILE": "~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json"
  }
}
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
.~/lisk-core/pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "lisk-core",
  "script": "lisk-core start",
  "env": {
    "LISK_NETWORK": "testnet",
    "LISK_CONFIG_FILE": "~/lisk-core/config/testnet/custom-config.json"
  }
}
----
--
====

TIP: All available options for `scripts` and `env` can be found in `lisk-core start --help`.

> After creating the config, to start it execute the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After creating the config, start it with the following command:
```

----

TIP: Use the `--pretty` flag to return the response in formatted JSON: `lisk-core node:info --pretty`.

=== Check new account address

It is necessary to know your new address to enable forging for your delegate in the new network.

> Use the following command to see your new account address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following command to view your new account address.
```

You will be prompted for your passphrase from which the other account details will be generated.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core account:show
----

> After running the command, you will be prompted for your delegates passphrase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After running the command, you will be prompted for your delegate passphrase.
```

----
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter passphrase:  [hidden]
----

> This will return an object including `privateKey`, `publicKey`, `address` and `binaryAddress`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will return an object including the `privateKey`, `publicKey`, `address`, and `binaryAddress`.
```

Use the Lisk Core CLI to cast the self-vote with the desired amount of tokens.

[source,bash]
----
$ lisk-core transaction:create 5 1 100000000
? Please enter: votes(delegateAddress, amount):  89aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d28, 148000000000
? Want to enter another votes(delegateAddress, amount) No
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please re-enter passphrase:  [hidden]
{"transaction":"0805100118012080c2d72f2a2024350a05e078b181fa8f3c273ca9882a8f5ed6efbaf3d1537665f9480635273f321f0a1d0a1489aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d281080a0e6d7ce083a403aef0012b05f3d962e3bc4b1ba70d6cc4fea783e24c02c36bc644e283ef2dd7618ec072594505c7ab8ce2a1e22dda5e90c51be79d06ac4871daf8430ff6a330b"}
$ lisk-core transaction:send 0805100118012080c2d72f2a2024350a05e078b181fa8f3c273ca9882a8f5ed6efbaf3d1537665f9480635273f321f0a1d0a1489aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d281080a0e6d7ce083a403aef0012b05f3d962e3bc4b1ba70d6cc4fea783e24c02c36bc644e283ef2dd7618ec072594505c7ab8ce2a1e22dda5e90c51be79d06ac4871daf8430ff6a330b
Transaction with id: '6a6121adf6a73a857bef92eaec9c29545f53c9196a16faa1eafdf58012f5a2e5' received by node.
----

=== Enable forging

> As the last step, enable forging on the node for your delegate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final step is to enable forging on the node for your delegate.
```

Again, this can be done by using the Lisk Core CLI.
Just use it with your own delegate address.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core forging:enable 89aa5fc8861d392f60662f76a379cc348fe97d28 0 0 0 <1>
----

<1> Replace the address with your delegate address in hexadecimal representation.

> The `0 0 0` stands for the three variables `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `0 0 0` stands for these three variables, `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, and `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.
```

> These three variables need to be set to `0` for every delegate who starts forging for the first time in the network, which is the case for every delegate participating in the migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These three variables need to be set to `0` for every delegate who starts forging for the first time in the network, which will be the case for all delegates participating in the migration.
```

[TIP]

====

> When a delegate has already forged in the network, it is necessary to check which values to use for `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a delegate has already forged in the network, it is necessary to check which values to use for `HEIGHT`, `MAXHEIGHTPREVIOUSLYFORGED`, and `MAXHEIGHTPREVOTED`.
```

> A delegate can check these values by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These values can be checked by running the following command:
```

                ]
            }
        }
    ]
  }
}
----

<1>  The list of delegates who are allowed to forge on this node.

Merge the forging config with the in <<create-a-custom-config-with-your-delegate-information,step 1.4>> created custom config to add the delegate information to the application configuration:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
[source,bash]
----

> jq --slurp '.[0] * .[1]' ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json custom-forging.json > ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json

Reviewer: LGTM, please get it verified with @fchavant or @Nazgolze once, just to be sure

Reviewer 4: I don't have a `custom-forging.json` with which to test but the command looks good.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TEMP_FILE=$( mktemp )
jq --slurp '.[0] * .[1]' ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json ./custom-forging.json >$TEMP_FILE
mv $TEMP_FILE ~/lisk-core/config/mainnet/custom-config.json
```
